sim-cyborg
==========

A final year group project for the D-Cyborg Team

To run, execute ./start_server.sh in the root directory. The main project page can then be accessed in a web browser at "localhost:3000"

NB. There may be a bug on some linux installations where forever cannot find nodejs. This can be worked around by running 'nodejs server.js'

###Config

Global variables which are not typically changed from game to game are stored in Sim/data/config_file.json. 

###Requires:
* node.js - Web server

(Development carried out using nodejs v0.10.15)

###Requires node packages:
* express - Web application framework
* forever - Keep a script running continually

###Installing Dependencies
* node.js - http://nodejs.org/
* express - Use npm (https://www.npmjs.org/) npm install express
* forever - npm install forever

###To Run tests:
Open localhost:3000/SpecRunner.html in a browser and the results of all present tests will be displayed on the screen. Source code is found in /src and the specifications for the tests themselves are found in /spec.


###List of Features and their usage:
* Process Simulator: This runs in the background and controls all development and progress on modules, this can be viewed whenever a scenario is selected. Sites and time progress, which drives the other features. Sites also only work for 8 hours a day (this can be changed in the master config), within their own appropriate timezone.
* Default Scenarios: These are presented to the user once the application is loaded, and allow for an easy setup for predefined scenarios that show off the application without any user input immediately required.
* Problem Simulator and Intervention interface: The problem simulator and intervention interface are closely tied together, and as a result fall under the same heading - problems are generated by the simulation and added to a site, which then allows notifications for the intervention interface to be displayed on the frontend. A list of interventions is then displayed to the user, none of which have an immediate impact but will reduce the probability of further problems of the same domain reoccuring.
* Status Display: Each site has a traffic light style status update which changes colour based on progress, and also displays basic information about each site.
* Inquiry Interface: The inquiry interface is a series of options, on a per site basis, which allow the user to explore a site in detail, to effectively decide if a site is accurately reporting their progress. Each option has an associated cost.
* Cultural Influenced Reporting: Not every site will report information accurately, based on cultural influences predefined by the literature in the backlog. This can be seen when an asian site is reporting all green, and the user visits to see that the site may not actually be on track with it's progress.
* End of Game Report: Score is calculated based on the formula given in the backlog, and displayed at the end of the game. This report also records other metrics such as revenue and productivity etc etc.
* Schedule Calculator: Computes the schedule of the entire project taking waterfall and agile development methodologies into account. It allows the player to see if a task, module, site or project is behind cased on the current time. The schedule calculator intelligently recognises that in waterfall modules will be waiting on the longest module to finish each task and accounts for this in the estimation. It also recognises that in waterfall a module that is delayed may not be be behind schedule, if that module is not the longest module and does not delay the project as a whole. In agile it recognises that if a a module is finished but is waiting on other modules to finish that it is not behind schedule. The schedule calculator is used to display the status of sites, modules and tasks, is used to estimate the days remaining in a project, and is used in the end of game screen to calculate final game score, revenue, the expected project length and the expected expenditure.
* Site Morale: Each site has a morale value which reflects how motivated the site is. The player can do things such as hold a party or organise a fun office excursion to increase a site's morale. However, repeated use of such activities will render them less effective at boosting morale. In addition, trying to raise the morale of a site that already has high morale is less effective then trying to raise the morale of a site where it is low. Morale is lost when problems occur and money is spent to correct them, tiring out the site's workers. Morale is directly linked to a site's productivity. If a site is at 80% morale then it will work at 80% of its normal speed. Alernatively, if a site's morale is at 120% then it will work 20% faster than normal. In this way it is possible to recover a behind schedule site by boositng there morale to above 100 at a cost. Finally, the morale of a site changes every day by +/- 1 to reflect the changing mood of an office day to day.
* Management Style: This is done via a series of "stats" that are currently set to a predefined value (1), which will be replaced by a front-end and an allocation system in the final release. Each stat has an impact on the game. Sensitivity reduces potential cultural issues, perception reduces the 'immediate' cost of problems, empathy helps workplace morale, charisma improves productivity, intelligence improves revenue, Assertiveness improves productivity (differently to charisma, effort vs rate), and Luck increases the chances of unspecified "good things" happening, and reduces the chances of "bad things" happening - actual events tbd. A potential example is: "A leading tech website does an article on your product, the ensuing hype gives you a bonus to revenue and morale". All of these stat values can be viewed on the main menu once a simulation has started - this is done by selected "View Character Sheet".

###Master Config:
Edit this at /Sim/Data/config_file.json
Values & Definitions for Global, Temporal and Cultural Distance were taken from http://jnoll.nfshost.com/cs4098/projects/global_distance.html
* Global Distances: Defines geographical distance between home site and other sites.
* Temporal Distances: Defines time difference between home site and other sites.
* Cultural Distances: Defines cultural differences between home site and other sites.
* Revenue: Revenue per year.
* Starting Capital: The amount of money the player starts with.
* Developer Effort: How many effort points a developer delivers per working hour
* Developer Rate: The cost per hour a developer incurs.
* Developer Working Hours: Hours a day the developer will work.
* Problem Constant: Constant value for problem simulator, used to tweak difficulty, decrease to reduce frequenecy of problems.
* Moral Modifer: Determines how quickly a moral intervention's impact errodes after repeated use. The higher the value, the quicker the errosion.
* Interventions: Initial and Daily cost for interventions, and the tasks they will affect. The numbers 0-6 represent the 7 stages of the product's lifecycle. Is_Implemented is the initial state of the intervention, if the user has paid for it, or simply starts with it.
